 

MATRIX ORBITAL ~

Economy Series

 

Including the MOS, MOI, and MOU

Technical Manual

Revision 1.2

PCB Revision: 1.0 or Higher

Firmware Revision: 5.0 or Higher
1 Revision History

 
2 Contents

L REVISION HISTOLY 00... eeeecccccccenseeseeeeece cee eeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeee eee aeeeeeeeEGGG GAA AEEEEEEE;;;;AA GEE EEEEE SS; ;;SGEEEEEEESSEAEEGEEEEEEEEEES 2
2 CONTENHS ......eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee aaa eeeeeeeeeeee aaa eeeeeeeeeeeaaa eee eeeeeeeeaaaa eee eeeeeeseaaaaeaeeeeeeeseaaaaeaeeeesesseeaaaneeeeeeeseaaaanne® 3
ZB INCPOCUCTION oo. eeecccceccccceeceeeeeeeeeeteeaaaeaeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeensneesaaaaaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneeesaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesenteseaeaaaaaaaaaaes 5
A QUICK CONNEC GUIKE LL. ee cee cee eeeeeeeeeeenaaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaaaaaaaaaaaeeeeeeeeeeeee ees eesaaaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeseeeeeenengnea 6
A.1 Standard MOdule .0.... eee cccccccccceceeceeeeeeseeeeeenaaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaaaaaaaaeeaeeeeeeeeseenseeseaaaaaaaaaeaeeeeeeeeseeee ey 6
RECOMMENEM Palts...........cecsesesesnncecceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesnenaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeeenenesaaauaaaaeaeeeeeens 6

4.2 Serial CONNECTIONS... ccc ceescecceceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaaaaaaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseessaaaaaaaaaeaeeceseeeeeeeneees 7
4.3 1?C MOdUule....sesecsessessesesessessecueescsecsecsessesscsscsceuccussussscussussucsssecseesesscsscsecuecussessecussusaeeaeeneeneeeeseeseeneeeessees 8
RECOMMENEM Palts...........cecsesesesnncecceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesnenaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeeenenesaaauaaaaeaeeeeeens 8

I7C CONNECTIONS v..cescscscssscsscsssscssscscscsvscscscscevsvssesesssessscssscscesscssevessssvavesavssesessscsessasecscesesessvensvavavavavasesnsaes 9

A.A USB MOdulle ......ceeececsceccecesseneeeeceeeneesaaeeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeseseaeaeeeeeeeseaeaeeeeeeeseeaaeeceeeeseaaceceeeeseeaaaeeeeeeseenaaas 10
RECOMMENEM Palts...........eeeeeseseenencnceceececeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeseeesaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesesteeeeaaaaaaaaes 10

USB CONNECTIONS .0... eee e cece ecee cee cee cence eae aae aaa aaaeaaeaaeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeceeceeseeaeeaaeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeeeeeeeeeeees 11

5 SOPLWAMEC ....eeeecscccceceessnteeceeeeseeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeesaaeaeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeseeaaaeeeeeeses 12
S.L Hyperterminal ......cccccccccsscssesssessessesseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeaeeeae eae eee sees eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeas 12
5.2 UPLOJOCE 0... eeececesccecceceeeeeeseeeeee eee eeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeee GAG AAA EEEEEE;;;;A; EAE EEEEE SE; ;A;EEEAEEEEESCEsES EE EEEEEEEEES 13
5. BS Application NOtCS........ccccsccssssssssssessssesssseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeaeeaaeaae eee eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeceeceeeeeeees 13

6 HArdWwale......eeeeeeessscscecceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesenseeaaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeees es eeteeeeaaaaaaaas 14
6.1 Standard Model oo... eeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeenaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeseeseeseaaaaaaaeaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenenags 14
Communication/Power Header ....ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccecceceeceeseeseesssussesssuscsesessceececceceeceeceeeeeeeseeeueaeags 14
Protocol Select JUMPELS........ccccccccccccennesnnsnteeseesesseessesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeaeeaeseaseaeeaeesseeeeeeeeeeneeses 14

6.2 °C MOdel.c.sscssesecsessessesncsessecuesucsessecucsucsucsecuesuesscsucsscseeucsussusuecussucsucsesueesesseseesceusaussessecusausaeeaeensaneaeeasens 15
Communication/Power Header ....ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccecceceeceeseeseesssussesssuscsesessceececceceeceeceeeeeeeseeeueaeags 15

6.3 USB Mel... eeeeecscececcesssesaceceeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeseeaeeeeeeeseeeaeeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeesaaeaeeceeseeaaaeeceseneeseaaaeees 16
Mini USB CONNEC COP... cece cee cee cee eeeeeaee eae aaa aaa eae eeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeceeseeaeeaaeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeeeeeeeeeees 16
Alternate Power COnne ctor ......ccccccccceceeceeeeeeeseeneneaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeseeseeaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesenesesssaaaaaaaaeaeeeeseeegs 16

6.4 COMMON Features.........ccceeeeecceceessseeeeeececeeaaaeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeeeeeaaa eee eeeeeseeaaaaeeeeeeeeeseeaaaueseeeeseseeaaanaeeeeeees 17
General PUrpOSe OUTPUtS 0.0.0... cece cceccessseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaeaae aaa eae eeeseeeEESeeEEeEEEEEEEEEESEESSESeeeeeeeea® 17

7 TTOUDICSHOOTING ......ccccccccccceceeneeaeeeneesseeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeaGeaeG Gee eeG sad sEEEEEESEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESEESEESEEEOEEEGS 18
TL POWED wee eee ceeseeeeeeee cee eee aaa eeeee eee aae aaa eeeeeeeeeeaa aaa eeeeeeeeesaaaaa eee eeeeeasaeaaa eee eeeeeaseeaaaaeeeeeeessesaaaaeseeeeeeseaaaaaaeeeeeess 18
TB QLED BUrn-In ec ccttttteeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee Gee GAAUASGAOAAE AAI AAE AOA EEEEEEELEEEEEEEEEESEESSEOSSSeSeSeEEGS 18

7A COMMUNICATION......... ce ceeeceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeceeeeesaaaaeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeasaeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeas 19
7.5 Manual OV€rride oo... cecceeceeceeeeeeeeeenennenaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeaaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeseneaeaaaaaaaeaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenig 19
B COMMAMNAS 2.2... cece eeeeenencncecceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesenenaaaaaaaaaeaeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeiey 20
COMMUNICATIONS ..........ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceaeeeaeeaeeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaasaaaaasaa ese eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeaeas 20
TOXt ceeeeeceecnecceceeeeseeeaeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeeeaaaeaeeseeeeaaaeeseeene 20
SPe@Cial CHAPACTELS ........ccseeseeseessessesseeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeaae eae eee eee seGeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeaaeaaeaaaaaaaaes 23
General PULPOSE OULU... cee eesessssseessesseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeaae aaa aee eee ees sEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESEESEESEEESEEESS 26
Display FUNCTIONS ..........ccccccccccecceceeceeceneeneeane eae eee eee see eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeaaeaasaasaaeeaaeessseseeeseeeeeees 27
Data SOCULILY ......ceeeceeeeccecceceeeeseeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeaa eee eeeeeeeeeGAGAAAEEEEEE SGA AAG AEEEEEEEE;G;;;; HAE EEEEEE;SE;;G GEE AEEEEESEAEA GEE EEEES 29
MiSCEIANCOUS 00... ... eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeennaceceaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeeseeeeessaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeeeeesenenesaaaaaaaaeaeeceeeeeeegs 30
DQ APPENAIX .....ceeecccccccencenneeneessessesseseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeaae Gee GGG eee esd sEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESEESSECSECSAGEA;E;AA GEA GEE GEE E EE EE 31
9.1 ENvirOnMental ue cccccceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaeaeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeseeseeaaaaaaeaaeaeeceeeeeeeeenessaaaaaaaaaeaeeseseeeeeeeeeenenges 31
9.2 EL@CtriCal ..... eee eee eecseceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenaaaeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeessaaaaaaeaaeaeeeeeeeeee ens eneaaaaaaaaaeaeeceseeeeeeeeeeeeies 31
9.3 Serial INterface ...... eee eeecccccesssseeceeceeseeenneeceeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeeeseaeaeeeeeeeseaaaeeceeenseaaaeeceesesesaaeeceeeneeeaaaeeees 31
QA 17°C Interface.....ccsecsessessessesssessessesussussessecsecsesscssesesscensoussessecuesussecsecsesuessesecseeseeucanssecsecueaueaeeaeeneeneeeesens 31
9.5 Dimensional Drawings ...........ccccccsccecceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaeaae eae eae eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeaaeaaaaaaaaaeaaes 32
LO OF Ling .........ccccccccceesseeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeaaeaae eee eee eesEGEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESEE;S;;E;;SO;;A;;A;;A;;; GA; GGA GGG EGG AG EERE EEEEEEEEEES 33
10.1 Part NUMbEerINg SCHEME ..........ccccccsecsnesneeeseeeeeeeeseeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeaseaaeeaaeaeeaeesseeseeeeeeneeees 33
10.2 OPtiONs ..... cc cceecccecccecceceeesseeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeae eee eeeeeeeee ease ee EEE EEEAGGAAGAAGEEEEEE;GA;;;GEEAEEEEE;SE;;G GEE AAE EEE SOsEA GEE HEEES 33
10.3 ACCESSOPICS .....eeeeeeeeecceeeeceeceeeeeceece cee aee eae aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa seeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeseeaeeaeeaaeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeeeseeeeeees 34
11 DeFINITIONS .... eee ceccecenenceceeeeeeseaeeeeceeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeeeesaaeaeeseeeesaaaaeeceeenseaaaeceeeeseeaaaaeeceeeneesaas 36

12 CONTACT 0... eee cceecscseceesececsscecsceesssseceesseucssseeussecsceeeeeaececeseuceseessseceeesessecessssucesesesseceseususaecessesecesensusanans 36
3 Introduction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{ J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ci, GEES

 

 

The Matrix Orbital Economy Series offers a wide variety of intelligent alphanumeric liquid crystal and
vacuum florescent displays designed to decrease development time by providing an instant solution to
any project. At the heart of this line is the elegantly adequate X-Board.

Three different versions of the X-Board are available to allow communication to a wide variety of host
controllers. The MOI model offers communication speeds up to 100kbps over a simple two wire, I7C
interface. The serial MOS version offers 9.6kbps or 19.2kpbs and standard RS232 or TTL logic levels
through simple hardware jumpers. Lastly, the MOU model offers a quick and easy USB connection.

The simple command structure permits easy software control of many settings including backlight
brightness, and screen contrast. On board memory provides up to 40 custom characters which can be
saved within the unit and recalled for customized start screens, bar graphs, or larger numbers. Finally,
three general purpose outputs provide simple switchable five volt sources.

The versatile X-Board, with all the features mentioned above, is available with a wide colour variety of
parallel screen ranging from 8 to 80 characters in size to suit almost any application.
4 Quick Connect Guide

4.1 Standard Module

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Seles a
| z - , 1 Communication/Power SCCPC5V/BBC
44 L_ xX
2 Protocol Jumper JMPR
[e/e/e| ——
— nisisisis! —— - eee 3 Baud Jumper JMPR
| Ld 4 GPO None Offered
5 Manual Override JMPR

The serial series X-Board allows for user configuration of two common serial protocol logic levels. Either
RS232 or TTL levels can be selected using the onboard jumper and accessed through the four pin
Communication/Power Header as outlined in the Serial Connections section.

Recommended Parts
eee The most common cable choice for any standard Matrix Orbital
display, the Communication/Power Cable offers a simple connection
6 to the unit with familiar interfaces. DB9 and floppy power headers
provide all necessary input to drive your display.

For a more flexible interface to the X-Board, a Breadboard Cable may
be used. This provides a simple four wire connection that is popular
among developers for its ease of use in a breadboard environment.
Serial protocol provides a classic connection to the X-Board. The Communication/Power Cable is most

commonly used for this set up as it provides connections for DB9 serial and floppy power cables. To

place your board in Serial mode, adhere to the steps laid out below.

1.

Set the Protocol Select jumper.

e  RS232: Connect the leftmost, outside RS232 pin to the inside pin of the protocol block.

e TTL: Connect the rightmost, outside TTL pin to the centre protocol pin.

Set the Baud Rate jumper.

e 9600bps: Connect the outside pin on the left, labelled 9.6K to the centre post of the baud block.

e 19200bps: Connect the 19.2k pin on the outside right to the inside baud pin.

Make the connections.

a. Connect the four pin female header of the Communication/Power Cable to the
Communication/Power Header of your X-Board.

b. Insert the male end of your serial cable to the corresponding DB9 header of the
Communication/Power Cable and the mate the female connector with the desired
communication port of your computer.

c. Select an unmodified floppy cable from a PC power supply and connect it to the power header
of the Communication/Power Cable.

Create.

e =uProject or hyperterminal will serve to get you started, then move on with your own
development. Instructions for the former can be found below and a variety of application
notes are available for the latter at www.matrixorbital.ca/appnotes.
4.3 I’C Module

 

 

 

 

 

__|
oo
ooo,
_ = a
Cc Esa 1 Communication/Power SCCPC5V/BBC
~ aleleleis| 2 GPO None Offered
Er] 3 Manual Override JMPR

 

The I’C version of the X-Board offers a simple application of the two wire I’C interface. This allows the
unit to become one of many slave devices driven by an I°C master device. This protocol can also be
accessed through the four pin Communication/Power Header as outlined in the I7C Connections section.

Recommended Parts

For a more flexible interface to the X-Board, a Breadboard Cable may
be used. This provides a simple four wire connection that is popular
among developers for its ease of use in a breadboard environment.
A more advanced connection to the X-Board is provided by the I’C protocol setting. It requires a
connection directly to your project, best accomplished using a breadboard and the included cable of the
same name. Power must be supplied from your breadboard or another external source. To dive right
into your application with the I7C model X-Board, get started with the guidelines below.

1. Set the Protocol.

e °C: The default write address of the X-Board is 80, hex 50, while read is one higher at 81.

Please ensure the host device uses this address when initially communicating to the board.
2. Make the connections.

a. Connect the Breadboard Cable to the Communication/Power Header on your X-Board and plug
the four leads into your breadboard. The red lead will require power, while the black should be
connected to ground, and the green and yellow should be connected to your controller clock
and data lines respectively.

b. Pull up the clock and data lines to five volts using a resistance between one and ten kilohms on
your breadboard.

3. Create.

e = This time you're on your own. While there are many examples within the Matrix Orbital
AppNote section, www.matrixorbital.ca/appnotes, too many controllers and languages exist to
cover them all. If you get stuck in development, it is possible to switch over to another protocol
on the standard board, and fellow developers are always on our forums for additional support.
4.4 USB Module

 

 

 

{ . J fm

 

 

 

a
i nh lel
Cole a ee
& SF 1 USB Connector EXTMUSB3FT
| “3 2 Alternate Power Header PCS
| elsicic's| Soom «(Cae 3 GPO None Offered
= 3 Manual Override JMPR

 

The USB version of the X-Board offers a single USB protocol for easy connection to a host computer.
The simple and widely available protocol can be accessed using the on board mini B style USB connector

as outlined in the USB Connections section.

Recommended Parts
——, The External Mini USB Cable is recommended for the USB model of the x-

\ \ Board. It will connect to the miniB style header on the unit and provide a
\ connection to a regular A style USB connector, commonly found ona PC.

 

10
The USB connection is the quickest, easiest solution for PC development. After driver installation, the X-

Board will be accessible through a virtual serial port, providing the same result as a serial setup without

the cable hassle. To connect to your USB series X-Board, please follow the steps below.

1. Set the Protocol.

USB: The USB version of the X-Board offers USB protocol only, no changes are required.

2. Make the connections.

Plug the mini-B header of your external mini USB cable into your X-Board and the regular USB
header into your computer USB jack.

3. Install the drivers.

 

a. Download the latest drivers at www.matrixorbital.ca/drivers, and save them to a known
location.

b. When prompted, install the USB bus controller driver automatically

c. If asked, continue anyway, even though the driver is not signed

d. When the driver install is complete, your display will turn on, but communication will not yet be
possible.

e. Atthe second driver prompt, install the serial port driver automatically

f. Again, if asked, continue anyway

4. Create.

Use uProject or hyperterminal to get started, and then move on with your own development.
Instructions for the former can be found below and a number of application notes are available
for the latter at www.matrixorbital.ca/appnotes.
5 Software

The multiple communication protocols available and simple command structure of the X-Board means
that a variety of applications can be used to communicate with the display. Text is sent to the display as
a character string, for example, sending the decimal value 41 will result in an 'A' appearing on the
screen. Anumber of control characters are also activated. Commands are merely values prefixed with a
special command byte, 254 in decimal. While many software programs are available to communicate
with the X-Board, a number of more common samples are detailed in depth below.

Control Characters

8 Backspace 10 Linefeed/Newline 12 Clearscreen/Newpage 13 Carriage return

5.1 Hyperterminal
Installed on most Windows computers, hyperterminal can be run by selecting run and typing 'hypertrm'
in the command line. This basic program will allow communication between a PC and your display.

When starting up, a name must be given to your connection, and an icon may be chosen, neither is
consequential. Next, it's important to select the appropriate communication port to which your display
is connected. Finally, the settings below must be entered to complete the port setup.

a ee eee

19200* 8 None 1 None

*Note: 9600bps Baud may also be selected on the standard X-Board model.

Once a port is successfully set up, data can be sent to an attached display by typing on the keyboard. At
this point, it may be helpful to echo keys to the monitor by selecting properties from the file menu and
opening the ASCII settings from settings tab.

Commands can be sent to an attached display by issuing decimal commands using the number pad.
While the ALT key is held down, four digit decimal values can be sent as a single ASCII character. For
example, to clear the screen, try the following sequence.

ALT +0254 ALT +0088

Any commands or text desired can be sent to the communication port using this method to provide
total control of any Matrix Orbital display.

12
The Matrix Orbital alohanumeric display tuner, or uProject, is offered as a free download from the
www.matrixorbital.ca support site. It allows the basic functionality of any display* to be tested using a
simple graphical user interface system.

While basic functionality can be tested using the GUI portion of the program, more advanced users will
enjoy the scripting capability found in the uploader tab. Here commands can be stacked, run, and saved
for later use. Although many commands are available to be dragged into the script dialog, perhaps the
most powerful is the raw data command found in the other branch.

This command allows raw bytes to be sent to the display, permitting many different formats for entry
and displaying in decimal notation. Any command from this manual may be entered in decimal notation
separated by slashes.

[254] /88/

Again, the clear screen command is sent to a connected display, this time using uProject raw data
command style. Scripts can be run as a whole using the execute command from the script menu, or as
single commands by selecting execute once. Before issuing commands, it is a good idea to ensure
communication with a display is successful using some of the basic GUI functions in the main window.

This program provides scratch pad upon which a tome of display projects and ideas can be assembled.

*Note: The uProject AutoDetect function will not perform correctly when a USB display is connected. Please
manually configure any USB display.

Full demonstration programs and code are available for Matrix Orbital displays in the C# language from
Simple C# AppNote Pack in the Matrix Orbital Application Note section at
www.matrixorbital.ca/appnotes. Difficulty increases from beginner, with the Hello World program, to
advanced with the Dallas One-Wire temperature reading application.

Many additional applications are available in a number of different programming languages. These
programs are meant to showcase the capability of the display and are not intended to be integrated into
a final design. For additional information regarding code, please read the On Code document also found
on the support site.
6 Hardware

6.1 Standard Model

Communication/Power Header

Cie

Vcc
Rx
TX

Gnd

 

 

BwWwWN

The Communication/Power Header provides a standard connector for interfacing to the serial series
X-Board. Voltage is applied through pins one and four of the four pin Power/Data connector. Please
ensure the correct voltage input for your display by referencing the electrical specifications in Table 20
before connecting power. Pins two and three are reserved for serial transmission, using either RS-232
or TTL logic levels, depending on what has been selected by the Protocol Select Jumpers. The versatile
Tyco 640456-4-LF style header employed here can be mated to a wide array of female connectors, a
Molex 22-01-3047 for example, for a perfect fit in any project.

Protocol Select Jumpers

The Protocol Select Jumpers, provide the means necessary to toggle the serial X-Board model between
RS-232 and TTL logic levels as well as the two baud rate speeds offered. As a default, the jumpers are
left unset. In order to place the display module in RS232 mode, connect the two leftmost pins with the
jumper provided, for TTL use the rightmost. Similarly, in order to set the display speed, connect the
rightmost pins for 19200bps or the leftmost for a more leisurely 9600bps. Jumper tables are shown
below with “X” indicating a connection for quick reference.

Sy

X X O O X X X X O O X X

14
6.2 ’C Model

Communication/Power Header

ire

Vcc
SCL
SDA
Gnd

 

WN

The now familiar Communication/Power Header also provides a standard connector for interfacing to
the X-Board IC model. Again, voltage is applied through pins one and four of the four pin connector.
Please ensure the correct voltage input for your display by referencing the electrical specifications in
Table 20 before connecting power. Pins two and three are reserved here for I?C communication on
addresses 80 and 81. Proving its versatility, the Tyco 640456-4-LF style header employed again for this
connection can be mated to a wide array of female connectors for a perfect fit in any project.

15
6.3 USB Model

Mini USB Connector

   
 

 

 

 
  
   

}$—J CI ~~
( ‘nnn a i Ea
SY CHD “ 1 Vcc
Pe 34 7/
) ee ,
3 D+
5 Gnd

The X-Board USB model comes with a familiar Mini USB Connector to fulfill both communication and
power needs. The standard MiniB style header can be connected to any other USB style using the
appropriate cable. Most commonly used with a PC, this connection creates a virtual com port that
offers a simple power solution with a familiar communication scheme.

Alternate Power Connector

 

HPO

HS

Cie

NC
Gnd
Gnd
Vcc

HU

l
+

 

 

 

 

BwWN

The Alternate Power Connector provides the ability to power the X-Board using a *second cable. The
Tyco 171825-4 style header is particularly useful for connecting to an unmodified floppy power cable, a
171822-4 for example, from a PC power supply for a simple bench power solution.

*Note: If the X-Board is powered by the Alternate Power Connector, the 0 ohm jumper resistor near the top right
labelled ‘P’ should be removed to avoid power contention.

16
6.4 Common Features

General Purpose Outputs

> ee ae
PULP Pe eye 1  GPO1 6 Vcc
2  GPO2 7 ~~ Vcc
3. GPO3 8 ~ VCC
4 NC 9 vcc
5 GND 10 VCC

A unique feature of the X-Board is the ability to control relays* and other external devices using one of
three General Purpose Outputs. Each can provide up to 20 mA of current at five volts. The two row, ten
pin header can be interfaced to a number of female connectors to provide control to any peripheral
devices required.

*Note: If connecting a relay, be sure that it is fully clamped using a diode and capacitor in order to absorb any
electro-motive force (EMF) which will be generated.

17
 

In order for your Matrix Orbital display to function correctly, it must be supplied with the appropriate
power. If the screen does not illuminate, power may not applied correctly. Try following the tips below.

e First, make sure that you are using the correct power connector. Standard floppy drive power
cables from your PC power supply may fit on the Communication/Power Header; however they
do not have the correct pin out to provide power. Matrix Orbital supplies power cable adapters
for connecting to a PC, which can be found in the accessories section.

e The next step is to check the power cable which you are using for continuity. If you don't have
an ohm meter, try using a different power cable, if this does not help try using a different power
supply.

e The last step will be to check the interface connector in use on your display. If the power
connections have become loose, or you are unable to resolve the issue, please contact Matrix
Orbital for more information.

 

If your display is powered successfully, the Matrix Orbital logo, or user created screen should display on
start up. If this is not the case, check out these tips.

e Ensure the contrast is not too high or too low. This can result in a darkened or blank screen
respectively. See the Manual Override section to reset to default.

e Make sure that the start screen is not blank. It is possible to overwrite the Matrix Orbital logo
start screen, if this happens the screen may be blank. Try writing to the display to ensure it is
functional, after checking the contrast above.

 

OLED technology is susceptible to a burn-in effect; whereby the brightness of active pixels may differ
from inactive ones over an extended period of activation. To reduce the burn-in effect, please use a
dynamic screen saver or simply turn the screen off when not in active use.
When communication of either text or commands is interrupted, try the steps below.

e First, check the communication cable for continuity. If you don't have an ohm meter, try using a
different communication cable. If you are using a PC try using a different Com Port.

e Next, please ensure that the display module is set to communicate on the protocol that you are
using, by checking the Protocol Select Jumpers.

e Inserial protocol, ensure that the host system and display module are both communicating on
the same baud rate. The display will communicate at either 9600bps or 19200bps only.

e Match Rx from the X-Board to the transmitting pin from your host and the Tx pin to the
receiving pin.

e Ifyou are communicating to the display via I?C* please ensure that the data is being sent to the
correct address. The default slave address for the display module is 80.

e InI’C mode, connect Rx to the data line of your controller and Tx to the data output.

e Unlock the display. See the Set and Save Data Lock command for more info.

e Finally, you may reset the display to its default settings using the Manual Override procedure
outlined below.

*Note: I?C communication will always require pull up resistors on SCL and SDA of one to ten kilohms.

Should the settings of your display become altered in a way that dramatically impacts usability, the
default settings can be temporarily restored. To override the display, please follow the steps below.

Disconnect power from your display.
Place a jumper on the override pins.
Reconnect power to your unit, and wait for the start screen before removing the override
jumper.

4. Settings will be temporarily** overridden to the defaults listed in the Manual Override Settings
table. At this point any important settings, such as contrast, backlight, or baud rate, should not
only be set but saved so they remain when the override is removed.

Backlight 255
Contrast 128
’C Address 0x50

**Note: The display module will revert back to the old settings once turned off, unless desired settings are saved.
8 Commands

Communications

 

eel a-lardinlcmatemeaeme § Dec 25451 Address
Slave Address Hex FE33 Address
ASCII m3 Address
Immediately changes the I2C write address. Only even values are permitted as the next odd address will become
the read address.
Acdress byte, even value

 

Text

 

ae \ixemsecelimm Dec 254 81
On Hex FE 51
ASCII #Q
The entire contents of screen are shifted up one line when the end of the screen is reached. Display default is auto
scroll on.

 

 

1.3. Auto Scroll [pete 254 82
Off Hex FE 52
ASCII gR
New text is written over the top line when the end of the screen is reached. Display default is auto scroll on.

 

 

Selle Dec 254 88
Screen Hex FE 58

ASCII mX

Clears the contents of the screen.

 

 

mee lasicmesmieclaas Dec 25464 Characters
Up Screen Hex FE40 Characters
ASCII m@ _ = Characters
Changes the message displayed on start up. Custom characters can be included by adding their decimal value (0-
7). Characters will automatically wrap on the display.
Characters 80 bytes, space characters can be added as needed

 

20
 

1.6. Set Auto Line [pete 254 67
ie] en @a Hex FE 43
ASCII aC
Text will wrap to the next consecutive line once a row becomes full.

 

 

(Ae emma DCC 254 68
Wrap Off Hex FE 44
ASCII aD
Text will skip one line when wrapping once a row becomes full. Writing order will be rows 1, 3, 2, and then 4.

 

 

1.8. Set Cursor [pete 25471 Column Row
Position fiat FE47 Column Row
ASCII =G Column Row
Sets the cursor to s specific position where the next transmitted character is printed.
Column 1 byte, value between 1 and display width
Row 1 byte, value between 1 and display height

 

 

1.9.Go Home te 25472
Hex FE 48
ASCII gH
Returns the cursor to the top left of the screen.

 

 

APO ROPa\V fo -m@blaxelam Dec 254 76
Sy Te Hex FE 4C
ASCII aL
Moves cursor one position to the left. Cursor will obey wrap settings.

 

 

1.11. Move Cursor [qpiete 25477
Forward Hex FE 4D
ASCII aM
Moves cursor one position to the right. Cursor will obey wrap settings.

 

21
 

1.12. Underline Dec 254 74
Cursor On Hex FE 4A
ASCII uJ
Displays a line under the current cursor position. Can be used with block cursor.

 

 

1.13. Underline Dec 25475

Cursor Off [ie FE 4B
ASCII aK
Removes line under current cursor position.

 

 

1.14. Blinking Block [ipete 254 83
Cursor On Hex FE 53
ASCII aS
For VFD and LCD modules a blinking block will be displayed over the current cursor position. On OLED modules the
last character printed will blink. Can be used with underline.

 

 

1.15. Blinking Block [ipete 254 84
Cursor Off Hex FE 54
ASCII aT
Removes blinking block over current cursor position.

 

22
Special Characters

 

1.16. Creating a Custom 25478 ID Data
Character FE4E_ !D Data
mgN_ ID Data
Creates a custom character. Each character is divided into 8 rows of 5 pixels, each data byte represents one row.
Each byte is padded by three zero bits followed by five bits representing each pixel state. A one represents an on
condition while a zero is off. Characters are lost when a new memory bank is loaded, unless they are saved.
ID 1 byte, character ID 0-7
Data 8 bytes, character pixel data as shown below

 

Datal 000 p1 |p2 p3 p4 p5 00001000 8
Data2 000 |p p2 |p3) p4 p5 00010100 20
Datas 000 p1 p2 p3 p4 p5 00001000
Data4 000 p1 p2 p3 |p4 \p5) 00000011
Data5 000 p1 p2 |p3 p4 p5 00000100
Data6 000 pl p2 |p3) p4 p5 00000100
Data? 000 p1 p2 p3 \p4 p5 00000011
Data8 000 pl p2 p3 p4 p5 00000000

Ow ff Bh wi wo

 

1.17. Saving 254193 Bank ID Data
OU Keyan FEC1 Bank ID Data
Characters
Provides access to all memory banks to create and save custom characters, graph bars, and large digits. Any new
characters saved will overwrite the old, so care should be taken when writing to any bar or digit memory bank.
Bank structure is shown below.
Bank 1 byte, memory bank ID (0-4)
ID 1 byte, character ID (0-7)
Data 8 bytes, character pixel data as above

 

ry Start-up Characters Horizontal Bars rE Vertical Bars Fi Medium Digits gy Large Digits

 

1.18. Loading Custom 254192 Bank
Characters FECO Bank
Loads a bank of custom characters into memory for use. Must be issued before using a bank of characters.
Alternatively, an appropriate initialize command can be used.
Bank 1 byte, memory bank ID (0-4)

 

23
 

1.19. Save Start Up 254194 |D Data
Screen Custom FEC2 |D Data
(Ol atelesleakel as

 

Saves a custom character to memory for the start up screen or repeated use. Start up characters are displayed by

sending their ID to the screen.
ID 1 byte, character ID (0-7)
Data 8 bytes, character pixel data, see custom character example

 

1.20. Initialize 254 109
Medium FE 6D
Number am

 

Loads the medium number custom character bank into memory. Medium numbers must be initialized before they

are used.

 

1.21. Place 254111 Row Column Digit
Medium FE6F Row Column Digit
Numbers mo Row Column Digit

 

Places a single medium decimal digit of 2 row height and 1 column width on the display at the position specified.
Medium numbers must be initialized before being placed.

Row 1 byte, value between 1 and 20
Column 1 byte, value between 1 and 4
Digit 1 byte, single decimal digit to display

 

i Peale PAS 254 110

Re gei= FE 6E

Numbers mn
Loads the large number custom character bank into memory. Large numbers must be initialized before they are
used.

 

 

1.23. Place Large 25435 Column Digit
Number FE23 Column Digit
m# Column Digit
Places a single large decimal digit of 4 row height and 3 column width on the display at the position specified.
Medium numbers must be initialized before being placed.
Column 1 byte, value between 1 and 4
Digit 1 byte, single decimal digit to display

 

*Note: Display must be at least two character rows in height to employ this command
**Note: Display must be at least four character rows in height to employ this command

24
 

sep a avi] Paes 254 104
Horizontal Bar FE 68
gh
Loads the horizontal bar graph custom character bank into memory. Horizontal bar characters must be initialized
before a graph is displayed.

 

 

1.25. Place Horizontal 254124 Column Row Direction Length
FE7C Column Row Direction Length
Places a horizontal bar graph on the screen beginning at the column and row specified. The bar extends either
right or left to the length indicated. New bars will overwrite old.
Column 1 byte, value between 1 and 4
Row 1 byte, value between 1 and 20

Direction 1 byte, 0 for right and 1 for left
Length 1 byte, length in pixels of the graph (0-100)

 

PA cman ate] P4e) 254 118
Vertical Bar FE 76
mV
Loads the horizontal bar graph custom character bank into memory. Horizontal bar characters must be initialized
before a graph is displayed.

 

 

1.27. Place Vertical 25461 Column Length
sels FE3D Column Length
m= Column Length
Places a vertical bar graph on the screen beginning at the column and row specified. The bar extends upwards to
the length indicated. A new bar will over write the old.
Column 1 byte, value between 1 and 4
Length 1 byte, length in pixels of the graph between 0 and 32

 

25
General Purpose Output

 

1.28. General Dec 25486 Number
Purpose Hex FE56 Number
Output Off ASCII = V Number

Turns the specified GPO off by supplying a zero volt output.

Number 1 byte, GPO (1-6) to be turned off

 

 

1.29. General Dec 25487 Number
Purpose Hex FE57 Number
Output On ASCII mW Number

Turns the specified GPO on by supplying a five volt output.

Number 1 byte, GPO (1-6) to be turned off

 

 

ClO SYo1 Sie] a Dec 254195 Number State
Up GPO Hex FEC3 Number State
SY isha

 

Sets the start up state of the specified GPO. Changes will only be seen on start up.

Number 1 byte, GPO (1-6) to be turned off
State 1 byte, 1 for on or O for off

26
Display Functions

 

1.31. Display On 25466 Minutes
FE42 Minutes
=B Minutes
Turns the display backlight on for a specified length of time. If an inverse display color is used this command will
essentially turn on the text.
Minutes 1 byte, number of minutes to leave backlight on (0 for infinite)

 

 

1.32. Display 254 70
Off FE 46
a F
Turns the display backlight off. If an inverse display colour is used this command will turn off the text.

 

 

1.33. Set 254153 —s Brightness
Brightness FE99 Brightness
Immediately sets the backlight brightness. If an inverse display color is used this represents the text colour

intensity instead. Default is 255.
Brightness 1 byte, brightness level from O(Dim)-255(Bright)

 

1.34. Set and Save 254152 = Brightness
Brightness FE98 Brightness
Immediately sets and saves the backlight brightness. Although brightness can be changed using the set command,

it is reset to the saved value on start up. Default is 255.
Brightness 1 byte, brightness level from O(Dim)-255(Bright)

 

1.35. Set 25480 Contrast
Contrast FE50 Contrast
mP Contrast
Immediately sets the contrast between background and text. If an inverse display color is used this also represents
the text brightness. Default is 128.
Contrast 1 byte, contrast level from O(Light)-255(Dark)

 

 

1.36. Set and Save 254145 Contrast
Contrast FE91 Contrast
Immediately sets and saves the contrast between background and text. Although contrast can be changed using

the set command, it is reset to saved value on start up. Default is 128.
Contrast 1 byte, contrast level from O(Light)-255(Dark)

27
 

sc Y Aes\-1 aD) 25489 Brightness
Brightness FE59 Brightness

mY Brightness

Immediately sets the text brightness. Default is 0.

Brightness 1 byte, brightness level from 3(Dim)-0(Bright)

 

 

1.38. Set and Save VFD 254145 _ Brightness
Brightness FE91 Brightness
Immediately sets and saves the text brightness. Although brightness can be changed using the set command, it is

reset to the saved value on start up. Default is 0.
Brightness 1 byte, brightness level from 3(Dim)-0(Bright)

*Note: OLED and LCD Model only command
**Note: LCD Model only command
*** Note: VFD Model only command

28
Data Security

 

254147 Switch
Remember FE93 Switch
Allows changes to specific settings to be saved to the display memory. Writing to memory can be slow and each
change consumes 1 write of approximately 100,000 available. Set and save functions are always remembered.

Remember is off by default.
Switch 1 byte, 1 for on or O for off

 

1.40. Set Data 254 202 245160 Level
eye FECAFS5A0 Level
Temporarily locks certain aspects of the display to ensure no inadvertent changes are made. A new level overrides

the old, and levels can be combined. Default is 0.
Leve!| 1 byte, each bit representing a level, see table below

0 7

1 2 3 4 5 6

Unlocks all setting locks

Reserved Place holders only, should be 0

Setting Locks settings such as backlight and contrast
Command Locks all commands

Display Locks entire display, no new information can be displayed

 

 

1.41. Set and Save 254 203 245160 Level
Data Lock FECBF5A0 Level
Permanently locks certain aspects of the display to ensure no inadvertent changes are made. A new level

overrides the old, and levels can be combined. Default is 0.
Level 1 byte, see data lock table

29
Miscellaneous

 

s/n ere Dec 254 54
AV A=Tacice)al Hex FE 36
Number ASCII m6
Causes display to respond with its firmware version number.
Response 1 byte, convert to hexadecimal to view major and minor revision numbers

 

 

1.43. Read Dec 25455

Module Hex FE 37

Type ASCII a7
Causes display to respond with its module number.
Response 1 byte, module number, see partial list below

 

Table 18: Sample Module Type Responses
| 4F MOS Displays Ey MOI Displays Ei MOU Displays

30
9 Appendix

The versatility of the X-Board allows it to be interfaced to a variety of different displays. As a result,
Character Sets, Environmental tolerances, Electrical specifications, and Optical characteristics will be
display dependent. Applicable X-Board values are shown below for reference.

9.1 Environmental

Operating Temperature 0°C to +50°C
Storage Temperature -20°C to +70°C

Oey NSE Svea = Maximum 90% non-condensing

 

9.2 Electrical

a

Current Draw (Board Only) - 25 -
Maximum Single GPO Current - - 20 mA
Input Voltage (Vcc) 475 5.00 5.25 V

9.3 Serial Interface

Input Low Voltage -0.5 0 0.2Vcc V
Input High Voltage O0.6Vcc 5  Vecc+0.5 V

9.4 1’C Interface

| Parameter | Min | Typ | Max__| Unit |

Input Low Voltage -0.5 0 0.3Vcc V
Input High Voltage O0.7Vcc 5  Vec+0.5 V
Clock Frequency 0 - 400 KHz

31
9.5 Dimensional Drawings
Please see display datasheets for screen dependent dimensions and drawings.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55.90
| 8.00 4905 fF polo 10.6 7m
7, |= 8886
70] t
“| ee =U
eonm)= e sa
36,00 = {2
Xs
Sleecs pees Fy
. e[s]s] 8.00
6.p0 as2] 77] [
-13,00- 4.904 9.3 Z

 

 

 

 

Figure 17: MOS Model Dimensional Drawing

 

535,90
a 78.00 4.904 polo 10,6 7

74) feseeeaeeas

®
f
*| Ss |
(oon e (ee
36,00 z {i
Xs
[| | | a pees
Bees sae Lt, 00
6.00 xx [ ®. a
8.3

13,00! asot
40,00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 18: MOS Model Dimensional Drawing

 

 

 

 

 

60.00
— 8.00 5.00-—=  - 5.00
3 bo
ajey| ft

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

@
s 10,00
@ fo.00 |
Gay]
2 Giomord-USB_ PCB RIO i
1910+!
e400

 

Figure 19: MOU Model Dimensional Drawing

32
10 Ordering

10.1 Part Numbering Scheme

10.2 Options

es
1 2

3 4 5

Ee  «)

| Interface Type

2 Display Type

3 Display Size

4 Display Model

5 Colour

MOI: I°C protocol only
MOS: Serial protocol using RS232 or TTL levels
MOU: USB protocol only
AL: Alphanumeric Liquid Crystal Display
AO: Alphanumeric Organic Light Emitting Diode
AV: Alphanumeric Vacuum Florescent Display
162: Sixteen columns by two rows
164: Sixteen columns by four rows
202: Twenty columns by two rows
204: Twenty columns by four rows
242: Twenty-four columns by two rows
A: Standard Size (162 and 204 Models Only)
B: Larger Screen and Text (204 Models Only)
C: Standard Size (202 Models Only)
F: Smaller Screen and Text (162 Model Only)
YX: Yellow-Green Background with Grey Text
BW: Blue (Inverse) Background with White Text
WB: White Background with Blue-Grey Text
XR: Black (Inverse) Background with Red Text
XY: Black (Inverse) Background with Yellow-Green Text
FA: Black (FFSTN Inverse) Background with Amber Text
FB: Black (FFSTN Inverse) Background with Blue Text
FG: Black (FFSTN Inverse) Background with Green Text
FW: Black (FFSTN Inverse) Background with White Text
OB: OLED Blue on black
OG: OLED Green on black
OR: OLED Red on black
OW: OLED White on black
OY: OLED Yellow on black

Please note that the X-Board can be mated to any parallel Matrix Orbital alphanumeric display. Check

the Parallel Display section at www.matrixorbital.com for a complete list of displays.

 

33
10.3 Accessories

Power

Table 25: Power Accessories

Standard Power Cable

 

Communication
Table 26: Communication Accessories

GU LOK) Mini-USB Cable

INTMUSB3FT Internal Mini-USB Cable

Serial Communication/5V Power
Cable

S} Ol Teed)

Breadboard Cable

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

 

 
Mounting
Table 27: Mounting Accessories

 

SPLIy yO 4 20x2 Mounting Bracket with
Coloured Overlay

 

 

B202A-XX 20x2 Mounting Bracket with Keyed
Overlay

 

 

B2041-XX 20x4 Mounting Bracket with
Coloured Overlay

 

| | cA ©O8
B204A-XX 20x4 Mounting Sraekct with Keyed
verlay “ a |

20x2 Coloured Overlay with Drill

MK2021-XX
. Guide

 

20x4 Coloured Overlay with Drill
Guide

MK2041-XX

   

 

 

Note: No mounting options are available for 16x2 displays.

*Note: Keyed overlays are available in Black Vinyl (-BK) and Beige Vinyl (no part extension). Deep Red (-DR) and
Silver (-SK) options are available for 20x2 sized displays only.

**Note: Non-keyed overlays are available in Black Vinyl (-BK), Black Brushed Aluminum (-BL), Silver Brushed
Aluminum (-AL), and Beige Vinyl (no part extension).

35
11 Definitions
ASCII: American standard code for information interchange used to give standardized numeric codes
to alphanumeric characters.

BPS: Bits per second, a measure of transmission speed.

FFSTN: Double film super-twisted nematic in reference to an LCD. The addition of two layers of film
between the STN display and polarizer improves contrast.

GPO: General purpose output, used to control peripheral devices from a display.
GUI: | Graphical user interface.

Hexadecimal: A base 16 number system utilizing the numerals and letters 0 through F to represent the
values 0-15.

°C: Inter-integrated circuit protocol employing a clock and data line to communicate a short
distance at slow speeds between a master and up to 128 addressable slave devices. A Matrix Orbital
display is a slave device.

LSB: Least significant bit or byte in a transmission, the rightmost when read.
MSB: Most significant bit or byte in a transmission, the leftmost when read.
RS232: Recommended standard 232, a common Serial protocol. A low level is -30V, a high is +30V.

SDA: _ Serial data line used to transfer data in I’C protocol. This open drain line should be pulled high
through a resistor. Nominal values are between 2K and 10K Q.

SCL: Serial clock line used to designate data bits in I?C protocol. This open drain line should be pulled
high through a resistor. Nominal values are between 2K and 10K QO.

STN: Super-twisted nematic in reference to an LCD. In a relaxed or nematic state, crystals orientate
themselves in the same direction and allow light to pass. In an excited state these crystals align to block
light. Super-twisted crystals move from 180 to 270 degrees between phases to providing contrast than
TN models.

TTL: — Transistor-transistor logic applied to serial protocol. Low level is OV while high logic is 5V.

USB: Universal Serial Bus protocol widely used in PCs.

12 Contact

Phone: 403.229.2737 Phone: 403.204.3750 Purchasing: www.matrixorbital.com
Email: sales@matrixorbital.ca Email: support@matrixorbital.ca Support: www.matrixorbital.ca

 

 

 
